>> Lukas Ruebbelke: All right,
so what I'm gonna do,
we're going to get into
component fundamentals.
I'm gonna talk for 10, 15 minutes.
I'm going to issue a challenge.
And then, we are going to break for lunch.
We'll eat lunch, and then we'll get into,
from there, you can pick up the challenge.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
in component fundamentals,
we'll talk about
the anatomy of a component.
I'm going to mention
just briefly a mnemonic
that I use when developing a component.
I just notice, I'm doing the same
thing over and over and over.
And so, I just came up with
a pretty simple mnemonic.
If it doesn't make sense, then scratch it.
But I personally like having small
little catchy things like I'm
doing something and I just have kind
of this check list I walk down.
And then we'll talk about how you just can
take a class, enhance with properties and
methods, injectables, and then we'll
just briefly talk about Lifecycle Hooks.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So the anatomy of
the component, remember template, class,
metadata.
And then from here, we have event
binding and property binding.
And that's quite simply, really I
think the core of, I mean I would be,
if I were to guess, I would say this
actually makes up 80% of your application.
I think as you start to
get expand in complexity,
it may shift a bit more to the classes,
but you will do this a lot.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: Little
bit of a show box here.
I come from, or rather, I think,
philosophically, I aspire to, or I really
like functional dynamic programming.
And so
one of my favorite JavaScript books is,
Functional JavaScript, by Michael Fogus.
I love observables for this reason,
I just love functional programming.
And so, when I saw the we are moving into
this classical kind of system of classes,
I was just like I don't
know how I feel about this.
Like, we're moving into the wrong
direction, cuz under the hood,
JavaScript is a LISP.
And it's a LISP really
in sheep's clothing and
you can do some really crazy
things with functional JavaScript.
And so as I saw these classes come up,
I really had a hard time
reconciling where it was going.
It kinda bummed me out.
And I kind of stopped, and
I thought, why do like,
what do I not like about classes in OOP?
And I realized,
I don't actually care about classes,
what I don't like is inheritance,
and when you have classes,
you now have the potential for
inheritance.
And so, especially in Java, this is
just kind of the way that you do it.
You have a class that inherits from
a class and inherits from a class and
on and on and on.
But I realize classes,
like it does not explicitly, or
it's not intrinsically a quality
that you must use inheritance.
And when I started thinking of classes
as simply organizational objects or
containers to put properties and methods
and not as a mechanism for inheritance.
It became a lot easier for
me to reconcile.
So I started thinking,
just as basic objects or
containers, and I never use inheritance.
There are maybe,
I'm not saying never, ever, ever.
I've never ran into
a case that made sense or
a composition via dependency
injection did not work.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: If you did it, or you
are using inheritance, be very careful.
Now on one end of the spectrum,
you have someone like Eric Elliot
who pretty much just like,
if you use inheritance, you're sub-human,
and I don't use that strong of language.
But on the other hand, you have somebody
like Dan Abramov, who created Redux, and
he wrote a fairly
thoughtful where he says,
when you control it and contain it,
he will use it up to a single level.
So just know that inheritance
is a slippery slope.
I never use it,
it's simply an organizational
mechanism very much like a module.
All right, so
let's talk about CIDER real quick.
And what that is is class definition,
imports your dependencies,
decorates your class then you enhance
it with properties and methods, and
then you just repeat this.
So this is where this
concept of just CIDER.
And as I was doing it by hand,
the first thing I would do is
I'd create my component class.
And so the first thing I'm gonna do
is like I need an items component.
Export class ItemsComponent.
The next thing I would do, is,
I would import my basic dependencies.
So import, this is where I'd import
my core angular dependencies.
If I knew there was any
third party dependencies or
custom dependencies, I would import them.
And so, what this does as opposed to ES5.
So if you've ever done ES5, well,
unless you're using requireJS or
something, where does
all your script tags go?
Where does all your resources go?
In the bottom of your index.html,
there's just tons of them,
unless you're bundling it.
But it's pretty much like
you just get everything.
With this approach,
it allows you to import and
just pull in just
the things that you need.
And so the next step is, we import.
So here, we're importing component,
and then we decorate.
So we turn into something
that Angular can use.
So in this case,
we're using the component decorator.
And as I mentioned, you can decorate
properties and methods as well,
input, output.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so here,
now we're decorating the class.
So, we create the component class, import
the dependencies, decorate the class,
and then from there we say well,
now what do we want this to actually do?
And then we start to add in methods and
properties that define the functionality,
and the data that we want to expose.
And so if you're using the Angular CLI,
a lot of this just happens for you.
But as you're building up your muscle
memory, class, import, decorate, enhance.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And so from here,
we got some properties, item,
selectedItem, and we have some methods.
And this is just straight JavaScript,
nothing fancy here.
Properties and methods.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And
you can also enhance with dependencies.
So we've talked about this,
but let's say your class or
your component needs a service.
Well, you just pass it in using
typically a private modifier.
Generally, you do not need to
expose your class to the template.
But now, it's available for
you to consume data, or
allow that service to do
whatever it needs to do.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: And then,
from here, I skipped a step.
Is that, and
you'll see this from day one to day two
as we start to build up the components.
Generally, I will start very broad.
I'll start to build something out.
And then I realize,
this is starting to get too big.
And so then I repeat.
And that's where the 'R' in CIDER
comes from, is I'll take something and
I'll abstract it out and turn it into
a child component, and you start all over.
So class, import,
decorate, enhance, repeat.
>> Lukas Ruebbelke: So
you can take it or leave it,
but that is just kind of in
my mind as I'm doing this.
That's what is happening.